Add article "Handling process-related events in WebView2" (#2670)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/process-related-events.md

description: Process-related events in WebView2 and how apps can handle them for recovery and improved reliability.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 07/11/2023
---
# Handling process-related events in WebView2

WebView2 uses multiple processes to support the WebView2 controls in your application. Because these processes can exit during use, WebView2 provides the `CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed` and `CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited` events for your application to react to different scenarios.  Use this document to learn how to use these events to react when these scenarios occur.

To improve the reliability of your WebView2 application, it is recommended that your app handles at least the following events:
* [The main browser process has exited unexpectedly](#the-main-browser-process-has-exited-unexpectedly).
* [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly).
* [A renderer process becomes unresponsive](#handle-unresponsive-renderers).

> For a list of APIs covered by this article, see [Process management](overview-features-apis.md#process-management) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

Reviewer: @mikehoffms should this be something like "process-related APIs"? This article has references to two kinds of API:
* Process related
* General WebView APIs (Close, Reload)

We removed the general APIs from "Process Management".

Author: locally, changed to:
```
To use this article, we recommend first reading [Process model for WebView2 apps](./process-model.md).  For a list of process-related APIs covered by this article, see [Process management](overview-features-apis.md#process-management) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.
```

* **Any process failure.**  When _any of the processes_ in the WebView2 Runtime fails, the CoreWebView2 will raise the `ProcessFailed` event. This can be due to a process crash, or an unresponsive renderer process. Use this event for diagnostics and recovery from failures in the WebView2 processes.  See [Handle process crashes](#handle-process-crashes) and [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly), below.

* **Main browser process exits.**  If the main browser process exits for _any reason_, the `CoreWebView2Environment` will raise the `BrowserProcessExited` event. Use this event to synchronize operations involving the WebView2 Runtime resources and lifetime, such as _User Data Folder_ management and updates. See [Handle main browser process exited](#handle-main-browser-process-exited), below.

> * **Main browser process crashes.**  When the main browser process crashes, it will produce both a `ProcessFailed` event and a `BrowserProcessExited` event, since the main browser process _exited_ because of a failure.  <!--todo: link to a section below?-->

Reviewer: @mikehoffms this is more like a note, and is covered in the detailed sections for the two cases above. I don't think we need links here.

Author: locally, removed comment

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#processfailed)
* [CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#browserprocessexited)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2::add_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#add_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2::remove_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#remove_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2Environment5::add_BrowserProcessExited event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment5#add_browserprocessexited)
* [ICoreWebView2Environment5::remove_BrowserProcessExited event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment5#remove_browserprocessexited)

---

See also:

> * [Process model for WebView2 apps](./process-model.md)

Reviewer: @mikehoffms I think we discussed having this at the top a recommended background read? If we moved it to the intro section, we could remove it from this 'Events' section. That article is relevant for this entire article, not only only for this 'Events' section.

Author: moved; added to topmost section (locally):
```
To use this article, we recommend first reading [Process model for WebView2 apps](./process-model.md).
```

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2Environment.FailureReportFolderPath Property](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2environment.failurereportfolderpath)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2Environment.FailureReportFolderPath Property](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#failurereportfolderpath)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2Environment11::get_FailureReportFolderPath](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment11#get_failurereportfolderpath)

---

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Handle process crashes

When a crash occurs in the WebView2 Runtime, the `ProcessFailed` event will be raised for every WebView2 control associated to the crashing process.  The failure might or might not be recoverable, and some failures are auto-recoverable.

> You can use the following event args to identify the failure:

Reviewer: These are properties from the event args. Should we link back to 'Gathering' section which has the link to `ProcessFailedEventArgs` or otherwise link to API reference for `ProcessFailedKind` and `ProcessFailedReason` enums?

@aluhrs13 thoughts?

Reviewer: FWIW I think we should add the tab to link to the specific properties like we do throughout the section.

Author: "link to the specific properties" - which?
Checking: are Kind & Reason properties of eventArgs? __

Author: locally, added:
```
##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs Class](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processfailedeventargs)
* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedKind Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processfailedkind)
* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedReason Enum](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processfailedreason)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs Class](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2processfailedeventargs)
* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedKind Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2processfailedkind)
* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedReason Enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2processfailedreason)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* `ICoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs` interface:
   * [ICoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs::get_ProcessFailedKind property](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2processfailedeventargs#get_processfailedkind)
* `ICoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs2` interface:
   * [ICoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs2::get_Reason property](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2processfailedeventargs2#get_reason)
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PROCESS_FAILED_KIND enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2-idl#corewebview2_process_failed_kind)
* [COREWEBVIEW2_PROCESS_FAILED_REASON enum](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2-idl#corewebview2_process_failed_reason)

---

See also:
* [Gathering process failure details](#gathering-process-failure-details)
```

---

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### The GPU process has exited unexpectedly

The content in your WebView2 controls might flash as the process is automatically recreated. Every WebView2 control in the _WebView2 Process Group_ will receive the `ProcessFailed` event with:
* **Failure kind:** `GpuProcessExited`.
* **Failure reason:** any, except `Unresponsive` and `ProfileDeleted`.

This is the most common WebView2 process failure and is auto-recoverable. Your application does **not** need to handle recovery for this event, but can collect information to understand any persistent issues, or if there is an underlying cause for repeated GPU process exits.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### A utility process has exited unexpectedly

There might be some interruptions (for example, if the utility process was hosting the audio service) necessary processes are automatically recreated. Every WebView2 control in the _WebView2 Process Group_ will receive the `ProcessFailed` event with:
* **Failure kind:** `UtilityProcessExited`.
* **Failure reason:** any, except `Unresponsive` and `ProfileDeleted`.

> This process failure is not fatal and is auto-recoverable. Your application does **not** need to handle recovery for this event, but can collect information to understand any persistent issues, including the `ProcessDescription` provided in the event args.

Reviewer: We might want to add the reference to `ProcessDescription` like we do for the sections above.

Author: locally, added:
```
##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs.ProcessDescription Property](/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processfailedeventargs.processdescription)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs.ProcessDescription Property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2processfailedeventargs#processdescription)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2ProcessFailedEventArgs2::get_ProcessDescription property](/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2processfailedeventargs2#get_processdescription)

---
```
also deleted all LMC url prefixes per doc build

See also:
* [Manage user data folders](user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Updating the WebView2 Runtime

In order to make use of the latest WebView2 Runtime after an update, your application needs to close all WebView2 controls and create a new `CoreWebView2Environment`. To ensure the new version is used, your application must wait for the `BrowserProcessExited` event; otherwise, the main browser process might stay alive when the new environment is created and switching to the new version would fail.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Restarting with a different environment configuration

Most of the configuration used for a `CoreWebView2Environment` is bound to the main browser process lifetime. In order to make changes to this configuration (for example, to language), your application needs to close existing WebView2 controls and wait for `BrowserProcessExited` before recreating the controls; otherwise, initializing the WebView2 controls from the new CoreWebView2Environment might fail with incompatible configuration.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Clearing the auth cache

> The auth cache is bound to the main browser process lifetime. To clear the cache, your application must recreate its WebView2 controls from a new main browser process instance. To ensure a new main browser process instance is used when recreating the controls, your application must wait for the `BrowserProcessExited` event before proceeding; otherwise, the main browser process might stay alive when the controls are recreated and preserve the auth cache.

Reviewer: @mikehoffms Should we incorporate the "definition" of auth cache here? Like:

"The auth cache, **which stores certificate selection and credentials from HTTPS Client Certificate Requests**, is bound to..."

Also, I'm not sure that the intention is to link to those pages related to auth cache. Those references were mostly for discussion about this article, not for public documentation.

Author: locally, changed to:
```
The _auth cache_ stores certificate selection and credentials from HTTPS Client Certificate Requests.  The auth cache is bound to the main browser process lifetime.  To clear the auth cache, your application must recreate its WebView2 controls from a new main browser process instance. To ensure that a new main browser process instance is used when recreating the controls, your application must wait for the `BrowserProcessExited` event before proceeding; otherwise, the main browser process might stay alive when the controls are recreated and preserve the auth cache.

<!-- 
* [Client Certificate Authentication](https://textslashplain.com/2020/05/04/client-certificate-authentication/)
* [With WebView2 what is the equivent of "closing the browser"?](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/issues/2623) - WebView2Feedback repo issue #2623
-->
```

      * [The GPU process has exited unexpectedly](#the-gpu-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [A utility process has exited unexpectedly](#a-utility-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [Any other process has exited unexpectedly](#any-other-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
   * [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers)
* [Handle main browser process crashes](#handle-main-browser-process-crashes)
   * [ProcessFailed, for main browser process crashes](#processfailed-for-main-browser-process-crashes)
   * [BrowserProcessExited, for main browser process crashes](#browserprocessexited-for-main-browser-process-crashes)
* [Handle main browser process exited](#handle-main-browser-process-exited)
   * [BrowserProcessExited event](#browserprocessexited-event)
   * [Clearing the user data folder](#clearing-the-user-data-folder)
   * [Updating the WebView2 Runtime](#updating-the-webview2-runtime)
   * [Restarting with a different environment configuration](#restarting-with-a-different-environment-configuration)
   * [Clearing the auth cache](#clearing-the-auth-cache)
* [See also](#see-also)

> WebView2 uses multiple processes to support the WebView2 controls in your application. Because these processes can exit during use, WebView2 provides the `CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed` and `CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited` events for your application to react to different scenarios.  Use this document to learn how to use these events to react when these scenarios occur.

Author: for search-engine optimization, move this Paragraph 1 to above the top-of-article TOC.

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#processfailed)
* [CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#browserprocessexited)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2::add_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#add_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2::remove_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#remove_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2Environment5::add_BrowserProcessExited event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment5#add_browserprocessexited)
* [ICoreWebView2Environment5::remove_BrowserProcessExited event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment5#remove_browserprocessexited)

---

> 

Author: ```suggestion
For a more complete list of APIs covered by this article, see [Process management](overview-features-apis.md#process-management) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.

```

Author: added

---
title: Handling process-related events in WebView2
description: Process-related events in WebView2 and how apps can handle them for recovery and improved reliability.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: msedgedevrel
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.technology: webview
ms.date: 06/29/2023
---
# Handling process-related events in WebView2

**Contents:**

* [Process model and APIs](#process-model-and-apis)
* [Events for processes that exited or failed](#events-for-processes-that-exited-or-failed)

> * [Handle main browser process exited](#handle-main-browser-process-exited)

Reviewer: Updated.

      * [Gathering details](#gathering-details)
   * [Handle unexpected exits for various types of processes](#handle-unexpected-exits-for-various-types-of-processes)
      * [Types of processes](#types-of-processes)
      * [The main browser process has exited unexpectedly](#the-main-browser-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [The GPU process has exited unexpectedly](#the-gpu-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [A utility process has exited unexpectedly](#a-utility-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [Any other process has exited unexpectedly](#any-other-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
   * [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers)
* [Handle main browser process crashes](#handle-main-browser-process-crashes)
   * [ProcessFailed, for main browser process crashes](#processfailed-for-main-browser-process-crashes)
   * [BrowserProcessExited, for main browser process crashes](#browserprocessexited-for-main-browser-process-crashes)
* [See also](#see-also)

> The WebView2 API provides the `CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed` and `CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited` events for your application to react to different scenarios.  Use this document to learn how to use these events to react when these scenarios occur.

Reviewer: Updated.

* [CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#browserprocessexited)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2::add_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#add_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2::remove_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#remove_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2Environment5::add_BrowserProcessExited event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment5#add_browserprocessexited)
* [ICoreWebView2Environment5::remove_BrowserProcessExited event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment5#remove_browserprocessexited)

---

To improve the reliability of your WebView2 application, it is recommended that it handles at least the following events:
* [The main browser process has exited unexpectedly](#the-main-browser-process-has-exited-unexpectedly).

> * [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly).

Reviewer: This is listed as what the app must handle _as a minimum_. Not all process failures are critical to the app, but renderers are as they require action for recovery.

I can update to apply to all processes, but the intention here was for developers to know right away what they **need** to do. Thoughts?

> * [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly).

Author: The present list highlights 3 headings.  Here's where they are in the article's structure of headings:
```
<!-- TOC headings outline, with + marking the called-out sections:
   * [Handle unexpected exits for various types of processes](#handle-unexpected-exits-for-various-types-of-processes)
      * [Types of processes](#types-of-processes)
+     * [The main browser process has exited unexpectedly](#the-main-browser-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
+     * [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [The GPU process has exited unexpectedly](#the-gpu-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [A utility process has exited unexpectedly](#a-utility-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [Any other process has exited unexpectedly](#any-other-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
+  * [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers)
-->
```

> * [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly).

Reviewer: We're keeping the reference to renderers only, given the structure of the whole document (separately referring to failures in renderers and other process types) and the intention of the reference.

> * A renderer process has become unresponsive.  See [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers).

Reviewer: Updated. Thanks!

These events and scenarios are described below.

This document is a high-level overview of the most relevant events. For details, see the linked API Reference documentation.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Process model and APIs

Reviewer: Merged.

   * [CoreWebView2Environment.ProcessInfosChanged Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2environment.processinfoschanged)
   * [CoreWebView2Environment.GetProcessInfos Method](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2environment.getprocessinfos)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* `CoreWebView2` Class:
   * [CoreWebView2.BrowserProcessId Property](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#browserprocessid)
   * [CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#processfailed)
* `CoreWebView2Environment` Class:
   * [CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#browserprocessexited)
   * [CoreWebView2Environment.ProcessInfosChanged Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#processinfoschanged)

>    * [CoreWebView2Environment.GetProcessInfos Method](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#getprocessinfos)

Reviewer: Merged section with intro and removed uncovered APIs.

In this document, we discuss how to handle process exits and failures, using the `CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed` and `CoreWebView2Environment.BrowserProcessExited` events.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Events for processes that exited or failed

The WebView2 Runtime is composed of different types of processes, including:
* Main browser process
* Renderer processes
* Utility processes
* GPU process

This is an illustrative and incomplete list of process kinds. The purpose and management details for these processes is part of the Chromium architecture and beyond the scope of this document, or the WebView2 architecture.

When you create and initialize a WebView2 control, WebView2 will ensure there's a WebView2 Runtime to power your control and connect to its [WebView2 Process Group](process-model.md#processes-in-the-webview2-runtime). Once this connection is established, your control will start monitoring these processes for the following events:

> * **Main browser process exits.** If the main browser process exits for _any reason_, the `CoreWebView2Environment` will raise the `BrowserProcessExited` event. Use this event to synchronize operations involving the WebView2 Runtime resources and lifetime, such as _User Data Folder_ management and updates. See [Handle main browser process exited](#handle-main-browser-process-exited) below.

Author: I'm inclined to keep.
I now can view rendered page, to better evaluate the doc design:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/process-related-events?branch=pr-en-us-2670&tabs=dotnetcsharp#events-for-processes-that-exited-or-failed

Other comparable sections with similar nav? tbd

> * **Main browser process exits.** If the main browser process exits for _any reason_, the `CoreWebView2Environment` will raise the `BrowserProcessExited` event. Use this event to synchronize operations involving the WebView2 Runtime resources and lifetime, such as _User Data Folder_ management and updates. See [Handle main browser process exited](#handle-main-browser-process-exited) below.

Author: @lflores-ms - i wasn't sure which section this would link to, so i added a hidden comment; pls find "todo" in file after i push commit.
```
* **Main browser process crashes.**  When the main browser process crashes, it will produce both a `ProcessFailed` event and a `BrowserProcessExited` event, since the main browser process _exited_ because of a failure.  <!--todo: link to a section below?-->
```

* **Any process failure.** When _any of the processes_ in the WebView2 Runtime fail, the CoreWebView2 will raise the `ProcessFailed` event. Use this event for diagnostics and recovery from failures in the WebView2 processes. See [Handle process failures](#handle-process-failures) below.

* There is some overlap between these two events. For example, a main browser process crash will produce both a `ProcessFailed` event and a `BrowserProcessExited` event, since the main browser process _exited_ because of a failure. See [Handle main browser process crashes](#handle-main-browser-process-crashes) below.

`CoreWebView2` and `CoreWebView2Environment` report these events so your application can react accordingly.  There are multiple scenarios your application can handle through these events.

> Main sections (scenarios) below:

Author: Outdated Comment/surrounding Markdown.  Latest https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer/pull/2670/files removed this nav list last week when streamlining nav.

See also:
* [Manage user data folders](user-data-folder.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Updating the WebView2 Runtime

In order to make use of the latest WebView2 Runtime after an update, your application needs to close all WebView2 controls and create a new `CoreWebView2Environment`. To ensure the new version is used, your application must wait for the `BrowserProcessExited` event; otherwise, the main browser process might stay alive when the new environment is created and switching to the new version would fail.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Restarting with a different environment configuration

Most of the configuration used for a `CoreWebView2Environment` is bound to the main browser process lifetime. In order to make changes to this configuration (for example, to language), your application needs to close existing WebView2 controls and wait for `BrowserProcessExited` before recreating the controls; otherwise, initializing the WebView2 controls from the new CoreWebView2Environment might fail with incompatible configuration.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Clearing the auth cache

Reviewer: The stored selection/credentials from HTTPS Client Certificate Requests.
[Client Certificate Authentication](https://textslashplain.com/2020/05/04/client-certificate-authentication/)
[WebView2 Feedback #2623](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/issues/2623)

Are you suggesting to rename/add details here?

> #### Clearing the auth cache

Author: Nominally "Outdated" comment/surrounding Markdown, but seems up-to-date.  This is at bottom of article.
Rendered section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/concepts/process-related-events?branch=pr-en-us-2670&tabs=dotnetcsharp#clearing-the-auth-cache

> #### Clearing the auth cache

Author: @lflores-ms -  i am pushing a commit such as:
```
_Auth cache_ means the stored selection and credentials from HTTPS Client Certificate Requests.  For more information, see:
* [Client Certificate Authentication](https://textslashplain.com/2020/05/04/client-certificate-authentication/).
* [With WebView2 what is the equivent of "closing the browser"?](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/WebView2Feedback/issues/2623) - WebView2Feedback repo issue #2623.
<!-- todo: link to a page such as https://learn.microsoft.com/docs/ ? -->
```
closing this "Outdated" thread, enter fresh thread if needed

* **Unresponsiveness.** A **renderer process** might become unresponsive to user input.  This is only reported for renderer processes; see [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers) below.

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2.processfailed)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2.ProcessFailed Event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2#processfailed)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2::add_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#add_processfailed)
* [ICoreWebView2::remove_ProcessFailed event](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2#remove_processfailed)

---

These situations can be identified through the details provided in the event. See the section below for how your application can do this.

> Subsections below:

Author: Outdated Markdown/comment here.

confirmed TOC; outline of headings per TOC:
```
* [Handle process failures](#handle-process-failures)
   * [Gather process failure details](#gather-process-failure-details)
      * [Failure kind](#failure-kind)
      * [Failure reason](#failure-reason)
      * [Gathering details](#gathering-details)
      * [Exit code, process description, and frames information](#exit-code-process-description-and-frames-information)
   * [Handle unexpected exits for various types of processes](#handle-unexpected-exits-for-various-types-of-processes)
      * [Types of processes](#types-of-processes)
      * [The main browser process has exited unexpectedly](#the-main-browser-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [The GPU process has exited unexpectedly](#the-gpu-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [A utility process has exited unexpectedly](#a-utility-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
      * [Any other process has exited unexpectedly](#any-other-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
   * [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers)
```
Removed the present list in question when streamlining nav last week.

* [Gather process failure details](#gather-process-failure-details)
* [Handle unexpected exits for various types of processes](#handle-unexpected-exits-for-various-types-of-processes)
* [Handle unresponsive renderers](#handle-unresponsive-renderers)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Gather process failure details

The `ProcessFailed` event provides information about the **kind of failure** and the **reason** why it occurred. Your application can interpret these details in the following manner.

Subsections below:
* [Failure kind](#failure-kind)
* [Failure reason](#failure-reason)
* [Exit code, process description, and frames information](#exit-code-process-description-and-frames-information)

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Failure kind

> Due to historical reasons, _failure kind_ is a combination of process kind (browser, renderer, gpu, ...) and failure (exit, unresponsiveness). Your application can use _failure kind_ to determine the process that has failed. Renderer processes are further divided in _main frame_ renderer (`RenderProcessExited`, `RenderProcessUnresponsive`) and _subframe_ renderer (`FrameRenderProcessExited`). For more details about the conditions under which each specific _failure kind_ is used, see:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 `ProcessFailedKind` is a combination of the process purpose (browser, renderer, gpu, etc.) and type of failure (exit, unresponsiveness). Your application can use _failure kind_ to determine the process that has failed and what type of failure. For more details about the conditions under which each specific _failure kind_ is used, see:
```

Reviewer: I have updated it, though this property currently doesn't tell much about the "type of failure" beyond exit/unresponsive. It's most useful to tell which process failed and `ProcessFailedReason` to tell specific category of problem that occurred.

> Due to historical reasons, _failure kind_ is a combination of process kind (browser, renderer, gpu, ...) and failure (exit, unresponsiveness). Your application can use _failure kind_ to determine the process that has failed. Renderer processes are further divided in _main frame_ renderer (`RenderProcessExited`, `RenderProcessUnresponsive`) and _subframe_ renderer (`FrameRenderProcessExited`). For more details about the conditions under which each specific _failure kind_ is used, see:

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason we're using _failure kind_, _failure reason_, etc. instead of `ProcessFailedKind`, `ProcessFailedReason`, etc.?

Reviewer: Just that it is more of a conceptual term than a property name. I don't think it makes much of a difference. Updated.

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedKind Enum](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processfailedkind)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedKind Enum](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2processfailedkind)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [COREWEBVIEW2_PROCESS_FAILED_KIND enum](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2-idl#corewebview2_process_failed_kind)

---

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Failure reason

When the _failure kind_ is for an unexpected exit, _failure reason_ indicates the category of the problem causing the exit. Some of the _failure reasons_ are only applicable to specific _failure kinds_.

> For unresponsive renderer _failure kind_, the _failure reason_ is always `unresponsive`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Removed.

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedReason Enum](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2processfailedreason)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2ProcessFailedReason Enum](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2processfailedreason)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [COREWEBVIEW2_PROCESS_FAILED_REASON enum](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/webview2-idl#corewebview2_process_failed_reason)

---

<!-- ---------- -->

> ###### Exit code, process description, and frames information

Reviewer 2: It might make sense to move this section to be the top section of "Gather process failure details" and include Failure kind and failure reason in the list.

Reviewer: @mikehoffms can you make this change? I'm not sure what the plans are around headings.

Author: I moved the section up to top of parent h2 section.  Didn't change heading or content yet.  Might move back down - discuss in meeting.  Adjust top-of-page TOC.

Author: The section "Gathering process failure details" essentially replaced that section.

> In addition to _failure kind_ and _failure reason_, the `ProcessFailed` event provides more detailed information about the reported failure, including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to _failure kind_ and _failure reason_, the remaining arguments of the `ProcessFailed` event provided more detailed information about the reported failure, including:
```

Author: probably "provides", not "provided"

Reviewer: Updated.

Additionally, most process crashes will generate dumps in the [user data folder](./user-data-folder.md), under the directory returned by `FailureReportFolderPath`. You can use these dumps to understand crashes and provide additional information when contacting the WebView2 team.

##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2Environment.FailureReportFolderPath Property](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/microsoft.web.webview2.core.corewebview2environment.failurereportfolderpath)

##### [WinRT/C#](#tab/winrtcsharp)

* [CoreWebView2Environment.FailureReportFolderPath Property](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/winrt/microsoft_web_webview2_core/corewebview2environment#failurereportfolderpath)

##### [Win32/C++](#tab/win32cpp)

* [ICoreWebView2Environment11::get_FailureReportFolderPath](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/reference/win32/icorewebview2environment11#get_failurereportfolderpath)

---

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Handle unexpected exits for various types of processes

<!-- ---------- -->

> ###### Types of processes

Reviewer 2: Can we just make this say "Before reading further, you should understand the WebView Process Model" linking to the doc? This is a lot of content to summarize another page, I don't like having two places to maintain the same topic.

Author: so far, I started the parent section "Handle unexpected exits for various types of processes" by saying:
To read this section, you should understand the [Process model for WebView2 apps](process-model.md).

Kept the dup info, where it's designed as a nav-linked summary list.

Author: I confirmed the above status.  Discuss in meeting whether to keep the below detail.

Author: Added a See Also link near top & bottom of article:
[Process model for WebView2 apps](./process-model.md)
@lflores-ms - you'll be able to move this link if you want.  after i push this commit

* [The main browser process has exited unexpectedly](#the-main-browser-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
* [A process rendering content in the WebView2 control has exited unexpectedly](#a-process-rendering-content-in-the-webview2-control-has-exited-unexpectedly)
* [The GPU process has exited unexpectedly](#the-gpu-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
* [A utility process has exited unexpectedly](#a-utility-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)
* [Any other process has exited unexpectedly](#any-other-process-has-exited-unexpectedly)

<!-- ---------- -->
###### The main browser process has exited unexpectedly

All the WebView2 controls in your application using the same environment configuration will receive the `ProcessFailed` event with:
* **Failure kind:** `BrowserProcessExited`.
* **Failure reason:** any, except `Unresponsive` and `LaunchFailed`.

> ##### [.NET/C#](#tab/dotnetcsharp)

Reviewer 2: Do we need to repetitively include the APIs and enums that we've already covered?

Author: might replace some tab-sets by a link to the (expanded) Process Management section of "Overview of APIs" article

Author: streamlined api ref links

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Restarting with a different environment configuration

Most of the configuration used for a `CoreWebView2Environment` is bound to the main browser process lifetime. In order to make changes to this configuration (for example, to language), your application needs to close existing WebView2 controls and wait for `BrowserProcessExited` before recreating the controls; otherwise, initializing the WebView2 controls from the new CoreWebView2Environment might fail with incompatible configuration.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Clearing the auth cache

The auth cache is bound to the main browser process lifetime. To clear the cache, your application must recreate its WebView2 controls from a new main browser process instance. To ensure a new main browser process instance is used when recreating the controls, your application must wait for the `BrowserProcessExited` event before proceeding; otherwise, the main browser process might stay alive when the controls are recreated and preserve the auth cache.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

> * [Overview of WebView2 features and APIs](./overview-features-apis.md)

Author: ```suggestion
* [Process management](overview-features-apis.md#process-management) in _Overview of WebView2 features and APIs_.
```
